Well, I finally figured out that link doesn't change so it's just the same link every time okay the past 45 episodes the process has been
I get on and I wait for you to DM me the link and I haven't noticed in 45 times
And today I figured it out cool so you can just bookmark that thing
Just show up. That's one less step. I don't have to copy the link and send it to you now
I love that actually we're gonna be so much more efficient now. Oh look at us
I'll have more time to talk about such interesting topics such as
Astro
That's a great one actually yeah, I was just wondering if you had thought about what we talked about cuz I have not well
Share share what yours tell me more about what you're thinking and exploring
yeah, so I mean been using Astro a lot and SST and
There's just there's some features that Astro they're moving fast over there - yeah, and you guys you guys are also moving fast
But you have a lot of different things you worry about that are not just Astro. Yeah, so I think it hit me this week that like
I'm in a good position to push some stuff
Because I care about this stuff. It's in my critical path
Yes, so Astro you pointed out just this morning has already launched the code splitting stuff. So instead of
Astro shipping your astro side is one big function
Now you can split it up by page by route or whatever and that means there are cool opportunities now in it and at an SST
To take advantage of that and bust it out into separate functions. So that's cool. Also lambda has streaming now
That's been a while I guess but
That's some low-hanging fruit that I'd love to add cuz Astro supports streaming. So
SST post Astro streaming on lambda. It's like all these little things that I feel like just chipping away at these people who are like
Look how awesome our thing is I'm gonna name names
We do streaming and stuff
Yeah, well, so do we over here in Astro land and SST land
Well, it's the other thing. There's one other thing you said streaming code splitting and
It's a good day. Oh redirects. Yes redirects. Yeah, so to Astro two dot nine has this redirect config where you can
It's looks all like next to us where you can configure
redirects
Which is a lot better than just creating files that have like the fences and a redirect
Yeah, what we have right now a bunch of files for every single redirect we want
We can move that into this config. So yeah, there's another opportunity
There's just like these three little low-hanging fruit
I feel like I could come in and just like boom one PR. Maybe three PR's. I don't know whatever you think
Hit all this stuff at once. Yeah, I mean, this is exactly the model that we're aiming for
We can get the initial thing working, but because we're not heavy users of any of these frameworks
we can only
Like it's just not aligned like we can't yeah do it as well as someone actually using it is so this is exactly what we hope for that
There eventually is someone that is really motivated to get this stuff working
And then they get working for themselves and in that process for everyone else
And I think that's why like this is a great example of a place where
It's just a crazy advantage for this kind of thing to be open source if you look at
Like equivalent plates to host this like for sale or netlify or whatever whenever whenever Astro releases a new feature
Suddenly some p.m. On their team is like, oh, no, like we got to support this
Like where do we fit this in the road map?
other people
Building iterating on their framework just creates work for them that they directly have to solve and they might
They're the same problem as us. They might internally not be heavy users of these things
So they might not even know about these features and they probably don't even hear about it till someone expects to work, etc
So yeah, this is exactly exactly what we want. So definitely excited for you to try that the one thing I'll point out though is
I'm not smart enough. Sorry jumping jumping ahead
Oh, something else you're not supposed to do the insults for me. That's that's taking away
But rely on the insult you you don't need it. Oh, I'll wait for it. Yeah, the route-splitting thing
So just a for the audience just to explain what it is again
Right now. I totally know go ahead. I do think you know
Okay
So right now Asha shifts is a single function which is fine for most situations
But as your application gets larger with lots of dependencies
It's just a lot to put into a single function so they announced they launched code splitting which actually didn't even notice
I've been like
eager for that feature
But yeah, it seems like they launched it and I missed it. So now it can split one
Bundle per route
So you can deploy a separate functions the issue that though is
Cloudfront by default only allows
10 behaviors per distribution
25 was it 25? Okay. Yeah, I just had it raised to 50. That's how I know guys an ask
So one you can get it raised and two was the amount they raised it enough for you
It what well not when we had the redirects and somehow the redirects did create more behaviors
I didn't look at them closely, but it was still we were still hit in the limit and then we had to cut the redirects out
Okay, but so ignoring the redirect just a normal route splitting for the number of pages you have is 50 enough
So it's it's not even just a page is it's like every file in your public every file in the root of your public directory
So all the static assets you want to ship if you got images or fonts or whatever
All of those the top level so like if you have individual files in that public directory each of those gets its own cash behavior
So it blows up really fast and then folders also like you could put everything in a subfolder within public
And it's just one cash behavior. Just the nature of the way. It's it's a Cloudfront thing
It's stupid. I never really thought about this that hard until I ran into this
But like you can't define a path. That's like some complicated glob
Where it can handle like Regex style like
If it ends in these it's like every if you want to have like an extension like every PNG and JPEG and and GIF or whatever
You've got to do like separate behaviors for each of those
So it does it blows out really fast way, but why why do static assets need to be split in that way?
Are they all served under the same policy? I have not actually looked at the behaviors that
SST is deploying into my my Cloudfront distro. I haven't looked down that closely, but I thought I assumed
That's what it was. I read something I thought in the SST docs even that said
The number it was like a little warning that like the number of files in your public directory
Well, you'll you'll hit this cache behavior. Oh in the public
Okay, okay in the public so static assets that you you serve
I guess those just get put in the bucket and exposed directly
And not going to like the Astro node server the clean way to limit the number of behaviors
You need is you make a subfolder for all like assets, right?
So if you do like assets slash all of your stuff
That's one behavior that applies to all your static assets because a pattern can just be
Yeah, that's yeah, but if you have a bunch of random files in the roots of the public folder then there's no like
Clean way to specify a pattern. So
Yeah, that might be why and that's that that is kind of annoying
We we moved them around like we had them all in the root and then we realized yeah
We just put them all in sub folders
We already had a bunch of sub folders too and each of those get the cache behavior. So initially, yeah
We blew past the 20 or 25 whatever it was saying. Yeah, I wonder yeah
You might be able to come up with just like a better way to think about some of this stuff as you like as you go through it
But yeah, so I was actually just referring to the stuff that actually needs SSR. So each SSR route
Like even then like are you under 50? Are you sure the each so each route actually gets a new cache behavior?
Are you sure no those all just like hit the default behavior and they flow through to the Astro node server, right?
Well, then that then they would all go to the same function. Oh, you're saying in this new world was splitting. Yeah
Yeah, oh, I hadn't thought about it. That's what that's what that's what's up. Yeah. Oh interesting
Yeah, it's so cloud front routing is the function. Here's an annoying thing. So I
Think for the first bit cloud front routing my house. So again, just to clarify. We're getting it's a lot of details here
But yeah, someone finds it interesting
So on the cloud front team is like this is good. Yeah
Cloud front is something called cloud front functions. These functions can run for one millisecond. That's their limits their runtime limit
They're just meant for like quick logic and they can kind of when a request comes in they can change certain properties
What was the limit? How many milliseconds one millisecond? Oh, yeah, no, and it's not even a dollar script
It's like or like a extremely limited subset. It's like an embedded scripting language
I can put into your CDN to change what happens when a request comes in
They can't change the origin that it goes to so if they could change the origin
I could basically build a router there that just says okay this request goes to this function URL this request goes another function URL, etc
But it doesn't do that
Unfortunately, you can't even do the redirects in my mind
I think you can't change the origin but with the redirect you're not changing the origin you're changing the path
That's a good URL path in the origin. Oh, yeah, okay
Yeah, it's somewhere right away with a 302 or whatever it is or whatever it is. So yeah, okay do that
So it's just a weird limitation there. So so what's the answer Dax just graze your limit of cache behaviors
I mean it comes with the it comes with the performance implication right like those cache behaviors the more of them
Presumably that's like hurting performance by itself, right? That's what the cloud front like
Docs seem to suggest really it's like yeah
It's like don't raise this limit too high like you can increase it
But like there's a real world cost to that and I guess that makes sense well cuz like the
routing pattern matching is like a whole deep
Like world of making that really efficient. So I imagine and people always complain like people like I know
Jared from bun always complains about like cuz he got into like implementing that for bun
He's always like oh these certain features like certain vlog card feature like blows up
The performance of certain things. Yeah, I
Don't know if there's like that much of a I think from like the micro optimization standpoint
Like they're probably for those people if it's like but not a huge
Worse what certain features, but I would be surprised if like you felt it as a one
So maybe this needs to be a higher default limit
I actually have the ear of someone at on the cloud front team who's in my DMS right now and was asking for some feedback
So I might suggest hey, maybe that limit could be a hundred by default. What are the real world applications?
Yeah, so we were asking for that as success in the same thing because because of that, but yeah
I'm wondering if there's like some clever way to structure your astro project that limits the need for this
I also wonder like with route splitting
Your performance might be worse because there's just more cold starts overall
So you have to really understand whether we're splitting if it lowers each of your functions by like 10%
In size it's probably not worth it if it lowers the right like a lot then it's may worth it
So it's got to be like you've got a really heavy dependency on one certain route
Yeah, and it might make sense just to split that that one route out and that we do that what we were thinking that in the
SST adapter for astro you could potentially specify what you actually want split
Deeply into that again just because this is all theoretical for me. I'm not actually building yeah anything with us
Yeah, cuz you could still well
I guess assuming astro in the build process when you build with splitting turned on assuming they still give you the original like
Fat function then you could SST could opt in to some of the new functions. You know I'm saying yeah, I don't exactly I don't it's
There's a question of can you do this from the adapter like is actually give you everything you need to do it from the adapter?
It might it might not so
Yeah, I mean you can also rebuild oh you can like build your own like router
Bundle up the multiple functions. Wow. Yeah. Yeah, we're getting really in the weeds here
This our audience for this is like Fred and someone from the cloud front
I heard you're talking to the astro team tomorrow. I heard you're coming too. Yeah, I'm gonna be there listening not that guy
I have two meetings with them tomorrow, isn't that crazy. Oh wow look at you
Yeah, it's becoming part of the astro core team. Let's just make you an honorary member of the team
Yeah, it's like I again just I never have I never have meetings and I had
Like three meetings in one day the other day. Oh geez. It's Friday. You got your Sunday meetings. I'm toxic
It's like it's like a
To me, I think of it as I'm kind of like blood sacrifice like I do a blood sacrifice where I do one meeting on Sunday for
No meetings the rest of the week. Oh, that's a good idea. Yeah, it's worth that
But then you actually have a lot of meetings. Sorry. Yeah occasionally very rarely my it was just like all external people
My previous role I
Had minimum three hours of meetings every single day daily. Yeah
I mean, I've been I've been at places where it's the meeting culture. There's a lot of that. Yeah, I had nothing else to do
How does that not died yet? Like how is that not like?
These companies that like half your days and meetings and you're like an icy like you're contributing code
How how does anyone think that's a good idea? I don't understand how that's not at that company. Like I was okay
I wrote zero code. I wrote like basically zero code. Yeah
so half my day was meetings which I think for a
Manager of entirely and purely management role. Yeah, that makes more sense
I guess not terrible you're in one-on-ones and you're in well. I don't know what your role was. Yeah
Yeah, so I'm director basically one-on-one roles
Well, I'm on one meetings with everyone on my team every week. Yeah, I was spread them around those are fun leadership meetings
The one one's are fun because it just like getting a fuck around with people. Yeah, so those are not bad
Lower pressure. Yeah, and then they were the other kinds of meetings also much more active though
Sorry, like you can't just like chill and do your work while you're on those calls. Yes, actually having you talk
Yeah, to be honest. I think almost all my meetings were fairly active
Because again, it's only worth that I did so I was not a director so
My meetings were mostly coding and half listening kind of listening
Yeah, and then they're like, what do you think Adam or did you want to a story point this one? Like I do not actually
Let's go five probably like five. I don't know roughly five story points, please
Yeah, then the other category meeting was
And this was what I was fantastic and this is why I think it was good at this role it was
meeting with other
people that led other departments and making them feel like
Okay, engineering knows what they're doing even though everything is going wrong
Just just like making one feel positive and confident and like yeah. Oh, yeah, like totally like
Too by the way, yeah
Yeah, that's that's mostly your job
Going fine. Yeah, no matter where competent. We know what we're doing. Yeah, I mean like manifesting to reality because like oh
Yeah, when people stop feeling that way they start
To need to stick their fingers into stuff and that makes stuff go even worse
But yeah, there's there's a reason for it. Can I ask you a question on the record like you deal with all these?
Web frameworks Astro
next JS
Solid start smelt kit, whatever you guys support them all
And you deal with all those people a lot of external meetings. I hear do you have a favorite?
Who's your favorite like who do you like working with the most like building with?
Yeah, like just like as a team like you really like interacting with that team. They're great
It's probably gonna be Astro mostly because they are the ones that actually have a company behind it. So there's there's like
Like that's everyone's day-to-day job. That's the thing that they're focused on so it's very easy just on a base level
It's very easy to work with them because we're also working on it as like a real job. Yeah, that's your job. Yeah. Yeah, so it's like a very
Clean collaboration and beyond that. They're just personally all great like always really excited to help. Yeah. Yeah, it doesn't really
Why yeah, why do you hate next year's? Why do you hate those people so much? We don't even wish them
You don't open next you just kind of do your own thing. I mean we'd like to but it's just oh, well, let's put the word out
I'm sure somebody one of them someone who works at Vercel has heard this podcast. We've had like episodes titled Vercel
I'm sure someone in our listenership works there and if you know, this is a solid branch Dax is reaching out
They'd like to work with you. It's not our branch. It's actually something. Oh, it's not our branch
It is please take this project off of our hands and just do it instead of us
Please just do it. Please like just take it like we don't want this project you take it you take it
I mean that would they take would they take open next or would they are you saying like they should open source the equivalent of open next
Is that what you're saying?
Or no take over open next and just make it for me just conceptually make it so that open next doesn't need to exist or needs to exist less
Yes, I got you our relationship with every other framework is pretty different
And we do very little in the adapter
We do like a little bit of work in the adapter and we just get at working at WS what next JS
It's like and the thing I always say is if you combine our efforts on every other framework and combine altogether
It's still a fraction of the amount of time we spend on next year's so yeah
It just it's just pretty different. I mean it's telling that like you look at the sst organization and github
And you guys have the sst repo which has like
Astro sst and all the adapters for all the other ones and then open next is a separate repo
Yeah, it's like a whole big thing the separate repo. I never look at
I never never get this is a frank does frank live in there. Yeah, frank guys
He dies and then we have to facilitate him and he comes back and we send him back in there
Yeah, it's very aware of all that
Astro's the one that we've worked the most with I think
the other frameworks also everyone has been really just everyone's like really
Good to work with I think this is my one of my favorite parts about open source
It's when and I talk about this all the time where
It's not meant to be like random people submitting pr's that you don't know like that's that happens
And that's fine. Yeah, but the best part of it is when you like establish a relationship
And then you can kind of work really efficiently together because you both know each other and everyone
Like each other it works well together and it's a lot more streamlined than just
Submitting a pr out into the void. Yeah, so we've gone to that place with like with the solid team
Of course, uh, and and I mean even with a
Svelte kit, uh, like rich Harris is like been taught like reply to our pr's and everything
So it's nice to salvage your relationships because whenever we need something we're not going through like
Random person door. We're going through that. We have a relationship with you door
That's like kind of through us out in a faster way
So yeah pretty much every every other framework we have that with uh, how hard is it for like a just like a product company
Just like company that makes some product and has a bunch of customers or users or whatever
Is it hard to sort of adopt an open source?
mantra where you're gonna like
make your stuff open and and
Available for people who are passionate about the product
To contribute because you just said like not about like random people submitting pr's
What if it would only be random people because there's no one really aligned that cares about your product
You're kind of like you're like an edge of the graph. You're not like
You know sst. Yeah, show you guys are like in the middle of that graph. Yeah, if you're like building products for specific things
You know what i'm saying? You know i'm getting at theoretically. Yeah, I think uh, yeah
I don't think that really works and even within sst
We have portions of it that are like that like the core of sst
We don't accept any contributions to because it's very unlikely that some person is gonna
Get on the same page with us and like know exactly where we're trying to go
Yeah, uh, if you look at the console, which is a very typical sass product
It is open source
Extremely unlikely that we're ever gonna get a meaningful contribution on that
Yeah, because there's just so much like you have to be aligned with like the way we think about product the way we design things
The way we do whatever
Uh, we still like to keep it open source because it is a great code example of a real life learning
Yeah, exactly. It's a good teaching example. Yeah
And I think that's the main reason why people should make their stuff open source
Uh, and they're okay
So there is a offhand chance that someone does contribute something useful like they like take care of something tedious or like
Yeah, something that is uh a small cut
But not high enough priority for anyone on the core team to work on like there's always gonna be random stuff like that that
The people can take care of
But yeah as a learning is that it's been actually been insane. I joke the other day
I think we have more users of our code base from our product
Because a ton of people have just been
Uh, like taking that set up and like trying to build their own stuff
I've referenced it a lot
I mean, I've already looked at the console code
Just like for just best practices with sst
Like just as i'm working through stuff and I realized i'm not thinking
I still have like cdk brain
And I realized that like there's things that haven't transferred over for me in terms of how to do it best in sst
So I just look at the console repo and that's like my gold standard. I know it's the last thing you guys worked on
Yeah, I love it. Yeah, and that's the thing I was looking for when I was first getting into serverless stuff
So I'm glad it in like a real app that does because for me the questions would serve those what I had in the beginning
We're never like what's the grand theory behind this?
It was more like how do you like check for the current user? Is there like what the worst way?
They just like really specific things like that
And then there's the whole local first thing like that's a great repo for learning all that stuff
I haven't even touched any of that but yeah, exactly. I think that's the part
I've been
Surprise that a lot of people because I because we talked about as a bunch that I think more people should to do that
But I acknowledge that's a big
Step and learning curve and a lot of the front from cost and building stuff that way
But I've seen a bunch of people posts on twitter if you would be like, oh, look at this thing
I'm messing around with like kind of base off of our setup
Some of it looks better than our console
I think I've seen some of these conversations like stock talking about he did it with next day s and like yeah
Just people it's so cool how people will take that learn from your example and then apply it in other ways and
Yeah, I love open source. Yeah. Yeah, and and in some way that's going to come back to us
So whether that's they build a product that's really good because they're using a similar setup
That leads to good products and we get to use it or they come back and they're like this pattern actually works better
I'm just kind of seeing other places testing it. So yeah, I think more companies should just consider open source saying their
code
It's usually not your competitive advantage as much as everyone likes to tie up all this stuff with IP and and all of all of that
like where I see someone's product I like
Can guess how it works for like 99 percent of cases like I don't need to see their code. Yeah, sure
But yeah, I think more companies should should definitely consider that
I am seeing that a little bit more too as a product company
You've never dealt with like you don't have the internal muscles for like dealing with a community if if it does
Build up like if there's a group of people that do want to help
Is that like a challenge too just to like build up the the mentality of an open source organization where you have to handle that community?
Triage and I don't know. I just imagine a lot of stuff involved with that
Yeah, so we like we are an open source company and we like very intentionally want a community and we like try to grow that as much as possible
Even then like I don't think we do like that creative a job at doing all that stuff. I mean there's literally three of you
Yeah, that's the thing that suffers the most when we get busy with other stuff. Yeah, so I can definitely see that if you're
Like you're not really an open source company that
You probably aren't going to spend any time there again. I think it's okay
I just don't think it matters that much because even for us
We like don't do an amazing job and it's still like fine
So it's still serving a lot of other purposes
Like you said like the learning aspects of it is like a baseline that that'll always be there regardless of if you're taking contributions or not
Is a lot? I guess how do you communicate it though? Like do people ever get upset like hi?
I put a PR out a week ago. Why I haven't gotten any eyes on it. What's going on? Does that ever happen?
Yeah, I know all the time because we are
I'm gonna push one that today and be like dax. It's been two hours. Come on
Okay, this brings me to another topic. I wanted to talk about okay, so
Uh, as I said earlier me and you have a relationship so when you push a PR
I am gonna look at it more than I would look at a random PR
And a lot of people might hear that and they're like that's unfair
That's not a good system because you have like people are getting unfair advantages, which is 100% true
I'm not gonna say that is not true
Um, but for a lot of people their ideal world and I talk me and let's talk about this a lot with apartment hunting like
uh
in new york
When you're looking for an apartment
They're every building
Insanely standardized process of like you fill out this form. You tell me your credit score
You tell me your income
We have this exact way of computing whether you get it or not and then that's the process. No one skirts that process
There's no
There's no like clicking with the length of none of that. It's just a standardized process
And that is technically fair it like prevents something extremely unfair from happening
But it also kills any opportunity for like two people to really just connect and be like, okay
This is a good situation like we want it. We want to grow. Um,
Whereas when we moved here in miami, uh
We saw this house
And we talked to the landlord and like very clearly a type of people and because they lived two doors down
Like exactly the type of people we wanted to live near
Uh, they really clicked with us as well. Uh, it was a really great like personal connection
And then when we left they called us and being like, hey, well a lot will knock down the rent by about $100 if you if you guys
agree, that's awesome. So
it's like it eliminates
opportunities for like for that to happen and I get that like that's technically unfair
in in a way of looking at it, but
I just don't think any extreme is
Is the best in that case like you do want to allow for these really personal local
Localized things to happen like that where something like better than like the average outcome can happen
Um, whereas they would have just gotten an average neighbor. Now they got like a more ideal neighbor and more ideal tenant
Um, so same with the pr's. It's kind of it works the exact same way. Yeah, but is that different?
Is that a wholly different thing than like nepotism like where you know who you know kind of gets you
I don't know a career or something else. Is that a wholly different thing than what you're talking about?
No, that that I think it's the same it's the same problem like another extreme is someone is like racist and like doesn't
They have full control over who they make decisions around and they like ignore like
They have some like crazy bias or like, you know, they just give it to someone that's that got there an unfair thing
So I like get the other so those are the extremes. Yeah, uh, where I feel like in New York
It's on the opposite extreme and I think a lot of cities. It's it's honestly extreme where it's like so overly standardized any concept of individuality
Just like disappears entirely. It's hard to strike that balance
But I think people react to those negative situations by taking it too far in the other way
Yeah, I I'm thinking of an example of because I've always thought about the like
I know the who you know thing. Is that even bad? Is it kind of the way the world works and that's okay?
There was a jack uh, no joe buck. He's a like a baseball announcer. Not there was he's still an answer. I guess
I don't know he does football too. I don't know he's an announcer and his dad was jack buck
Who's like this legendary announcer for the cardinals here in mrs. And he he makes a lot of self-deprecating jokes about nepotism
because he very much got his career from his dad being this legendary announcer, but also like
I don't know. He's got a great voice like genetically
There's like a reason that they had this great announcer voice
And he's good at what he does like the fact that his dad was really good at it
And that's why he got his job and I know like there was well documented the way he got into his career was
Very like I mean it was nepotism like to its core, but like is the world worse for it? No, he's a good announcer
So i'm sure that there are extremes like you're saying like cases where it plays out very badly
Uh, but it's not all bad like nepotism doesn't have to be a bad word. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. It's uh
Yeah, it is tricky like with everything the world's really complex and any kind of some like
Rigid rule like that usually is not it's not the right way to go
Speaking of that because this has been very top mind for me when you said the world is very complex
Uh, I realized I have this worldview and I don't know if I've communicated to you or if I've ever put
Uh enough thought to it to communicate to anybody
Uh, but I have this worldview where like I don't blame anybody
For literally anything. Yeah, like I view everything
That happens every you know action that someone takes or reaction
It's just like this product of like their entire life and every circumstance and every whatever
and like not that they don't have like free will to like do whatever they want, but just that like
Everyone's sort of a product of their environment. They're
Their genetics. They're upbringing all those things
And it's just sort of like yeah, they were going to take that action
So it's very hard for me to like place blame in any situation
On a person or a group of people because I do just view it through this lens of like
I don't know. I haven't lived their life and I don't know. I don't know what led them to that point to do that thing
But it probably all makes sense like the math of it in the universe probably all works out. Does that make sense?
Is that way too far removed from our conversation?
No, I I feel the exact same way about everything and I think that the way it is manifests a lot is when
Uh, I think a good example
And maybe a very extreme example is uh, who's a with their nose woman Elizabeth Holmes. Oh, yeah
Obviously you see something like that that did a bunch of stuff bad wrong
But a part of me
Like very much sees how I could have ended up in that situation like
Just being myself and just being in a certain environment and like set up in a certain way
uh, so I also have a tough time being like
Getting angry or like upset because I'm like I like very
Like I'm like the way you're saying it like you can just see how they became that way
And you can see how like any like human put in that situation would have become that way
Uh, and then said the other side is I like can see myself in that situation
I'm like wow that would suck like I I would suck to be in that situation and like I
I don't most things even things that are bad. I can like see how I would have just done
The same thing. Uh, yeah, and let's talk about this a lot too. Like whenever there's
Situations like that she feels the exact same way like she has a hard time like
getting angry or upset
For those reasons why I feel the same way it's like I don't I I would have done the same thing or like
I thought I didn't know how much of it was like I was a middle child
Like I've got this theory this personality that wants to like defuse any conflict and like work it out between parties
I didn't know if it was that or if it was just some kind of other worldview, but
Uh, I feel like there's a name for it. I feel like you probably know it and you're just hiding it like you don't want to sound too smart
But like oh, well, that's the crow's eye principle everyone knows that
Okay, I think it's it comes from feeling like there are the things are deterministic and there isn't really like free will
Is that what it is? Yeah, I mean, I think that's where it's for me. It stems from it
I can see where you can play it out to that degree
And I don't know how I hold on to my beliefs that people get to choose what they do
I still believe that I guess yeah, you like I agree that it's definitely hundred percent feels that way
But the other side of me knows that some asteroid hit some other asteroid at a certain angle like
8 billion years ago, and that's why I don't have hair in my head, right? It's like there's like
There's just I just I just fully see it as if you knew all the rules of the universe
You could just predict it forward in a perfect way
So I don't really believe in free will at my core
So I think that kind of bleeds out to these places where it feels like maybe I don't either
Maybe I'm just it's like trying to pretend I do is because I feel like I want that control or something
Maybe I don't actually believe it because if I really think about what I'm saying is in contradiction to free will
Yeah, I'm just I'm just sort of like hanging on to something that I don't really believe
I think it definitely feels like we have free will and I think it's
Probably and also not right to like make everyone blameless, but no, right
It doesn't like get you out of your consequences. It doesn't change the circumstances like like actions lead to
Uh, it's still like all of those things apply. It's just there's a lot of empathy
Of empathy that it brings of like this could have literally been me or this could have been anyone or like yeah
A lot of things led to this besides like uh-huh. There is like a rotten spirit at the core of this person
Yeah, no, I've been I've been up close on some like situations in the recent
Weeks that have led to those thoughts. This is it didn't come out of nowhere
Uh, but I I feel like I'm in contrast the way I view it is in contrast to everyone else around me
Which is like no, this person's at fault. No, this person. It's like their fault and I don't know
I just view it like
They are who they are and that's how they would have that would have played out a hundred times out of a hundred times
Yeah, yeah, I feel the same way cool. We were supposed to disagree with me. That would have been way more fun
To help me why we have free will
Uh, so the other thing obviously we gotta talk about the superconductor stuff. What?
What happened with superconductor stuff. I don't even know what you're talking about. Are you serious?
I've been way unplugged and I'm not saying that you're this I'm like all I think about right now is astro and sst
Like that's for weeks. So what is superconductor? Tell me more
You're you're you're you're gonna feel so bad when I describe what's happening. Oh no
Because it's did you learn this on happiness? It is literally everywhere like there's not a place that I can escape it
It's literally just everywhere. Is it on twitter? It's on twitter. I made a joke about it yesterday
I was like I don't are you serious? I was like I'm not ready to become an expert on superconductors. Okay. Tell me
What is what is what is a super dagger? What are we? Okay? So I
Again, is this the alien thing? I'm not it's not it's different. It's different
How do I explain this? Okay, so there is there's a paper that came out
Um, I guess why are you gonna feel bad because if you if you spend this time obsessed with the web framework, you're gonna feel like
You're everything you do is completely meaningless when I and I tell you what this is just changed. You're hyping this up
I'm so excited. Okay, there's a paper that came out
And it's people are trying to replicate it in the next couple days because it's seemingly like simple to replicate
Uh where people uh these three
It's kind of confusing. They're they're kind of like arguing over who gets credit
But uh these people from korea these reaches researchers from korea
That that they've made a superconductor that is room temperature that's stable at room temperature
Could you tell me what a superconductor is or are you getting there? Uh, again, I'm not looking at super expert on this
So i'm not super expert on superconductor. You're not super expert on superconductor
Um, but I've like seen videos of superconductors in the past where uh, you've probably seen them too. They're like these
There's there's there's material that's used in certain places
So the word itself that gives you a hint a superconductor means you can put energy in it and it transfers through with very very little
Lost
Okay, that makes sense
A conductive. It's like 99.99 percent energy transmission, right? So if you think about a power line
You just now got me out of the branch. That's not like a train conductor
No, no, no, no, it's like well, why have you have occasions for trains? So we're gonna be back there. Okay
Uh, there's so if we think about a power line like uh
A power plant can only supply power to a certain distance because the heat loss from the power lines eventually like becomes too much
And we lose a ton of energy even with the current distance like some percentage of energy is just lost in transmission
So a superconductor can theoretically transmit energy at
Near infinite distances because the loss is is so so minimal. Okay, but the issue is every superconductor
We found so far needed to be at some like crazy low temperature to operate
So like you need like liquid. I've always seen videos of like liquid nitrogen and then putting the superconductor in like showing
There's other weird effect. Uh, there's a name for it where it lets you like
It's kind of a magnetic effect where it hovers over uh
Over other um, or like some other materials. So a superconductor hovers over other materials. Yeah, again, I don't know this stuff that well
I don't know what the actual uh mechanism is but
It has to do with something like
The word superconductor implies like electrons flowing through it and something about that
There's like some effect that it creates where it can like hover over stuff
And you I feel like you must have seen this video like imagine like
A bunch of like gassy liquid nitrogen and something like kind of hovering over a surface. Have you ever seen that?
No, you should look at my youtube history. It is not that
There's a great video where someone built a hoverboard
Uh that like is made from the stuff they're constantly filling with liquid nitrogen to keep it cold enough
It's like a real hoverboard
Yeah, and they have tony hawk try to use it and it's so difficult because an actual hoverboard would be like is so so so hard to ride
Uh, so anyway
Uh really low level material and obviously the constraint has been uh,
It needs to be super cold kind of expensive to produce
Someone has built that's the people are saying that we've now have a superconductor
That's works at room temperature and ambient pressure. So you can just have it in any environment
And it's very cheap to make
theoretically
So this has implications on literally everything so I was gonna say this sounds like a big break
It's like a
It's a first small tiny step and like a lot needs to be done to get it
Like progressive to a place where there's a lot of other variables that are uh in play
But if you just let if you ignore that and just kind of fantasize
Theoretically you could build a crazy solar power plant across the desert in the middle east and run power lines for the rest of the world
Oh, wow
It has implications. There's like some
Yeah, so
I feel like this in fusion research this solves like one again, not isn't solve the whole problem
That solves like one problem in fusion
Uh again with the magnetic effect the hovering effect. Now you can build uh like trains that are not
I kind of had a maglev trains work, but again, yeah
It has implications in like so people keep coming up with other areas where it could it could impact so
We might be on the cusp of
AI super intelligence
No, it has implications in in uh in semiconductors as well
Yeah, exactly. So again really far-fetched, right? So that we're like all fantasizing here
Um, because one the paper might not be real to there might be limitations that where it never leaves the lab
Kind of like how graphite is we might but I know if you let yourself fantasize we might be on like a new era
of
Like humanity. What do you think?
Yeah, what do you think the percentage likelihood that like this pans out is?
I have no idea. I just I just you're not an expert. No, but you're you're not a super expert, but you're expert
You think
Because you just explain conductors if you can't explain super conductors, maybe just conductors. Let's start
You're not a super expert
Give me it. Give me like is it a coin flip. Is it like a 1% chance with like a moon shot?
I don't know. I don't know. I feel like I
I have no idea your intuition is good. I want to know what your gut is. Is this gonna happen?
Something about it makes me feel like it's a yes. Yeah, I do feel like it checks this box for me
That's like I do feel like there's gonna be these weird little dominoes that happen that just like completely alter everything
Yeah
So it checks out for that because that might immediately jumped all these other fields that are like making breakthroughs
You think of AI you think of fusion energy
I mean both those things are way ahead of where people thought they'd be at this point in time and you think about like something like this just
Being a catalyst. It's it's really exciting. What's really crazy about this is no new technology
Need to first exist for this thing to be produced
Uh, I saw someone saying that you could have made this in the lab in like 1890
Do you know anything about like the material or whatever is going on here? It's like some kind of led thing led. Yeah, it was led all
Yeah, we were interesting. We ran away from lead and now we're running back
Presumably it's not just led. There's like they're doing something. They're adding something to lead. Yeah, yeah
There's some so basically that they actually discovered this material initially in 1999 these these scientists
Uh-huh, and they were kind of and what's weird is they're not like they're not like these like really renowned
Scientists they were kind of like mid-tier scientists that were kind of played at this on the size of a side project
And they finally got funding a couple years ago
Two of them to like explore it deeper and they sent in like a big shot scientist and babysit them. So there's three of them now
Uh, and they they've they've they've been working on like
Refined the process to actually produce it and then now they finally figured it out
Uh, and they've been super paranoid that it was gonna leak and someone was gonna steal it because they were like so convinced that this
Is gonna work and it is like gonna change the nobel prize-winning
Statues in every city type of situation like Einstein level fame. Wow
So the everything they've done indicates that
They genuinely believe that's what's at stake here. Yeah, so I think the question of is it like fake is maybe I don't believe that it's fake
Um, does it actually work is the question, but it's so easy to produce at a bunch of labs. I'm not I was actually wearing
Uh a shirt from this company. That's like a space company. Um, they have all the equipment. Yeah, so they
They're engineers in the past but they've been tweeting about this for the past couple days. I've been trying to replicate it
And they should have everything in place by tomorrow or saturday
Oh, wow. So we're gonna know soon if this is like something it could be replicated and if there's real stuff here
Yeah, I get taking it to industrial. You see there's obviously a lot there, but this yeah
This doesn't break any physics laws. It's not like someone made infinite energy and that breaks
It's like it follows everything. Yeah, or like faster than speed a lot or something like we've seen that like oh the new tree knows or whatever
Yeah, that people brought that paper as well where people were like we know this is wrong, but we don't know why but they did
They publish it anyway. So yeah, like this this could be a major thing
The other thing that brings up for me is there's like this
thing about us that I hate
Which is
Actually, it was funny humans hate themselves a lot, right? Like I think if you like just look it
I hate myself. No, I'm not gonna end up at a dual level like
We like hate human like the concept of humanity. Like we hate them. We're like humans like scum
and if you look at like
Any fantasy story, it's always like there's a magical kingdom and then the humans arrived and they like
They like destroyed it and it's it's always like we have this low level of heat of ourselves
and
I think that shows up in places where it shouldn't so if we think about like we're all worried about climate change
Everyone is convinced that the only way to solve it is to punish ourselves because that's kind of been like
It just shows up everywhere like in certain religions
Like the idea is you're bad and you need to like repent for who you are and then you get saved if you sacrifice stuff
Yeah, if you limit yourself you limit the bad parts then like then there's like a solution for you
Um, and I think people have this feeling with climate change where they're like
We need to stop having children and we need to stop like
Doing xyz. We need to stop stop stop stop stop
And if we repent for the badness that we are and agree that we have yep
We will stop climate change. Uh, it's completely impractical because that's nice to say that from like a very developed country
Uh saying all those countries. Yeah, they're developing. It's yeah billions of people you're like denying them
But it's like it's like kind of a mess up position, but oh, yeah people believe there's like de-growth thing like the only way out of this
Is to like shrink ourselves because like we were greedy and we grew too much
But my position has been this happens all the time like in history so many so many times
There's a famous one in india where everyone was all the scientists were predicting
How there's a huge famine
Millions of people are gonna die is gonna be disaster. We've hit the ceiling on like what the ecosystem can support for this population
Yeah, there's there's like a name for people that believe that think like this. It's it's like a very like natural place to think you're like
Okay, you can only support so many people
then a scientist from somewhere in the midwest actually
Figured out a strain of I think it was rice
That had like crazy yield. It was like a multiple yields
And he literally saved like millions billions of people because the yield was something that no one could predict
Uh, and we've just gone through this so many times where like one or two people will innovate something that was so outside the realm of any calculation
We just enter a new era of what's possible
So that's what I've been hoping for and and leaning on and this kind of
I think I have a lot of bias because I want this to exist to like support
Yeah, my way of thinking so that's why I feel like it it can be the thing
But it's an example of the type of thing that can happen. Yeah, I'm definitely guilty of the other side
Like I'm guilty of the like we need to stop doing things like just that mentality of like
Uh retreating a bit. I'm definitely guilty of that. So it's nice to hear your perspective
It does give me this optimism that like humans will figure it out. We will solve problems
We can keep pushing we will figure it out. It's a very natural place to go. I remember the it's called a mouth fusion trap
I think it's called
Malthusian or it's like mouthusianist or something like they are
Pareto principle. Yeah, yeah, keep going. I can't I swear
I don't think I actually know that many of these but somehow the ones that I know always pop up
Well, I guess I guess I'm in control of the conversation to some degree. So yeah
So we're all gonna have hoverboards now. Well, I think this video shows that hoverboards are kind of useless
Like even tony hawking does barely ride it and if you can't but you can't ride it. I'm not gonna be able to ride it
Look back to the future. I mean they they look so cool
And useful. Yeah, I think I think friction is important. Like that's all right. It. Yeah. Maybe you can't really maybe we'll get
Trains. Yeah, we'll finally get high speed rail and I love this story. Yeah, no kidding
I love this story so much because it's like you realize all the ways we can make advancements
I don't even think about materials. Like I don't think about material sciences and how much like they could just invent new combinations of things
There's probably like infinite
Combinations of things they could figure out have important impact on society. It's like
I don't know. I get I'm in this little bubble with technology where I think about like all the advances we're making in technology
But there's like so many ways that humans can push the boundaries and learn new things
And you just start to imagine like alien zipping around the universe with these materials that we are just now discovering like we're little babies
And we're figuring stuff out. I don't know. I love it. It's all interconnected too, right? Like
This discovery might push
the cost of compute a lot further down which then enables all sorts of things that
All sorts of stuff that we just ignore because it is not
Possible. Yeah, which then you know, we were able to do better research exactly and lock stuff in fusion
Which leads to like more abundant energy and then it's just like this crazy feedback
Yeah, yeah, Pareto principle or something
Yeah, I mean if this leads to fusion then a fusion is super that makes energy super cheap
Then we can suck carbon out of the air for really cheap
Yeah, like the sound really there's just like so many so many things so it feels so much like a video game
It's like insane how much like a video game it feels. Yeah, like the the the arc of it
The yeah, like you like research one technology and I'll lock another one and then like eventually you're like working on high level things
Yeah, it does that is some games. Yeah
Sorry, I know these things. I said Pareto principle is a joke needed in laugh and I want everyone to know I didn't think that was actually a Pareto principle
I don't know what the Pareto principle is. I don't remember
But when I said it it was just a joke. Okay, I just have to say a joke
It's a joke. I don't know if you principles Adam's Adam remembers. I just remember that word for some reason
Yeah, it reminds me of Japetto. I I think a Pinocchio. Well, Pareto wasn't Italian
Economics. Oh, it's so this Japetto. Okay, maybe I don't know. I don't know I hear
Same family basically
Yeah, so anyway, this has a huge impact on react server components too. No, it doesn't wait
You got me a little distracted. Oh, yeah
So bringing his back to the beginning where you're like oh, I've been doing his web framework stuff
Are you even motivated to work on code splitting now?
Oh, no, I super am but like it does put everything in a new perspective. Now
I've got to read the stories and I got to know I want to see the paper
I don't understand it. I love when like a new big paper comes out and it's like monumental until like skim it
Like you know what you're doing like oh, okay, well those those math symbols cool
Well, what's interesting is I think this is actually one of those things that is
I would say most technical things like this are so outside the realm of
Understanding like it's just not even worth it. I think this what's amazing about this. It's so simple
It's like it actually is. Yeah, it's understandable
Like how how quickly do you think there's a team a two-pizza team at amazon doing something
To try and use these materials and like the semi-conductor lab or something. I feel like that's a thing
They're probably jumping on it. So they're order of operations is first
Uh put out a memo that says we are now a blank company. So now they're a superconductor company
Oh, okay, and their CEO does an interview where they're like
Uh, we were actually ahead of everyone in this
And it's it's I didn't know this was their thing
And then and then like then they like kind of try to build something and catch up
I'm I'm just referring. I don't know if you saw the AI comments that uh the CEO of a AWS making
Oh, no, I didn't see it. Yeah, he basically gave an interview where he was just like
uh
Were ahead in all this all this stuff and we're gonna do this all better and like yeah
Like just kind of like say stating it as though like they've always been ahead and they're like not even worried
Um, I want it to be true so bad. I want it to be true so bad because
Uh, I do want access to all the lm stuff. I want it to be a lot cheaper
And from like a technical point of view, it's actually important that exists in AWS because I can't just be shipping
Like a lot of companies like the whole thing with all this AI stuff is you can hyper personalize stuff
Like yeah, but you can't just start sending hyper personal stuff to like the open AI
Api if you're doing like anything medical. You can just start shipping and who knows what they so having stuff all in your own infrastructure is important
I'm getting a cheaper is important. So I wanted to be true
But I'm like really skeptical that they have made they're like the the image they're projecting externally anywhere lines up
To what they have been really quiet on like the llm space like they do a lot of AI stuff
Obviously, they're like a lot of machine learning stuff. I guess with like sage maker and all that family of stuff
but like
The the llm stuff. They're saying now that they're sort of like they're up there with all these people that are pushing the boundaries
They just have been quiet. He basically was saying that you can't count microsoft. They outsourced the work to open AI
So azure is not relevant. They didn't like do they don't have any expertise internally. We have the expertise internally. The thing is
They can make one claim always for no matter what happens, which is they are operating at a bigger scale than anyone
And anyone they have more customers than anyone. So yeah, yes
They will obviously enter into any space at like a crazy advantageous position
But he kind of went further than that being like he made it sound like no like this is like we've always been doing this
We've been doing this. Yeah, and like we were turning our own LMS
I would not be surprised if they didn't start doing that so after like the general public was aware of this stuff
I would be kind of as if they didn't be very customer obsessed. So like that makes sense that the customers come to them and they're like I want to do LLM stuff
On my AWS account. Yeah, like we've always been doing LLM stuff. Yeah, it's coming
Well, have you seen there? I think we've talked about him before there's an AWS hero who works at hugging face and he publishes
Roughly an article every day
And he's got an article on how to train like how to fine tune llama 2
On SageMaker, which is really interesting to me. Like I'd love to play with that and have like an open II alternative
Maybe it's like 90 percent of opening. I don't know what gpt4 versus llama 2 looks like
But yeah to have that on your own AWS account running on a serverless SageMaker
You know inference endpoint. That's pretty cool
It's like a whole article walking through it. Yeah, it's a very important
Workflow to figure out for this to actually make it into products because that's kind of the limiter right now. That's why all the
AI products that are getting funded are just like
a UI wrapper
Because you just like the other stuff is it's too hard
But the scale of it the economics of it do not make sense like yeah
I can say as a company that has a lot of users like working for a company that has a lot of users
Uh, we can't just like outsource everything to open AI like
Most of our users don't pay us
Uh, there's like ad revenue and stuff, but like that it would have to be like training your own LLMs on
Much more economic infrastructure. So that yeah, that's exciting to me
I think able to be able to get there. I think like I do look at them as the only cloud that matters
I mean, I guess like I know you think about cloud flare and all these but like in terms of the big three like azure google
Yeah, I don't know. I just don't care about those things
They will get there and I want it to happen
Sooner than later because that also gives us as a like SST as a company an opportunity to like oh
Bring AI to people in a way they can actually
Uh use it at scale not just for like little toys. So that like I got i'm excited from that angle as a user
I'm also excited like boomy. We have it's really great
Uh feature that when a doctor goes to go see a patient
They get a nice summary of everything about the patient
So they don't have to like read through the charts. They know there's important things I need to know
Uh, and even we like like let us come with a prompt for open AI that generates a pretty good good
And that's a perfect use case because it doesn't have to be perfect because if it's
Misses a detail. It's like not the end of the world
It's just not like a crazy viability situation there
Like we can kind of send data to open AI as long as we don't say like
The person's name or who it is and open information but
Again, like there's there's a cost question. We like need to make sure that economically that all makes sense
I think it will for us because we're b2b. It's like everyone cares us and we can differ forward the cost
Uh, but like yeah, just like that complexity there like I need it in AWS and yeah, I like to see that it's coming
I'm excited
and now i'm excited that
A new material entered the world and it's gonna change everything and I don't care if it's still early. I'm buying it
buying it on the hype
Well, there's all those prediction market. Have you seen these prediction mark this concert prediction market?
You know what that is is this like futures like is this like a banking thing?
Yeah, basically. It's basically like I think it came out of the crypto world. I don't know if it existed outside of that
Basically, someone can create a bet. It's business betting. It's a bet for anything and people can place
Their bet on either side and that creates lines on like what people think
Oh, so there's like a line on whether this is gonna plan out. Yeah, pan out exactly. So
I think it's pretty low. I think it's like under 20% of people believe
That it will yeah, there's like only 20 percent. Oh, really? On the will side. Yeah, so most people are betting on the lower and lower
as like time
Huh? So
Everyone's mostly a pessimist. We're some of the few optimists out here. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, I mean, I just wanted to be true so bad
I feel like those betters are very efficient though. I feel like lines are very efficient and they're good
Those prediction marks are interesting. They're like wisdom of the cards or whatever. Yeah, yeah
It's like if you have a jar of jelly beans. Have you ever heard that? No, what is that? No, I'm sure you've heard that
You've read 10 books
Uh, if you have like a jar of jelly beans
And you asked like one person to guess how many jelly beans are in there like they're never gonna be anywhere close
But if you ask like a hundred people and you average all of their responses pretty close. Oh, wow
It's interesting. Yeah, this is like there's science behind it. I always say that. I'm always like there's a paper or something
I don't just say these things lightly. Okay. I'm not so my best friends or scientists
Oh, really? I'm just kidding. I was like, I was like, that's what you're like. You're like, no, it's true. Yeah, I've got friends
That's what I should say. Yeah
Okay, all right. Well, I got a lot of work to do on astro astro site and astro SEC
So I'm gonna hop off here. Well, the world is changing underneath. Nice. That's work for that's work for me
You're doing work for me. Oh, yes. Sorry. Nice. I'm gonna give you some work
That's a good work. I don't know the work for me today
That's cool. This was fun. This was a good one. I don't know. I don't always feel at the end of it like that was a good one
This was a good one. Yeah, exciting day in general. Yeah, exciting day. The world is changing. Okay. Cool. Good acts
(gentle music)